EFFICIENT 
FACTOR 
INVESTING 
STRATEGIES
WHITE PAPER  
For professional investors  
May 2016
David Blitz, PhD 
Joop Huij, PhD 
Simon Lansdorp, PhD 
Pim van Vliet, PhD


Contents Introduction 3
 
The rise of factor investing 5
Pitfalls of factor indices 7
Enhancing factor strategies 11  
Client preferences determine optimal factor combination 13
Appendix 15
2  | Efficient Factor Investing Strategies


Intro   Investors increasingly decide to 
allocate strategically to factor 
premiums such as the value, 
momentum, low-volatility and 
quality premiums. We argue 
that generic factor strategies 
are suboptimal because they 
involve significant exposures 
to unrewarded risks, and that 
more efficient factor investing 
approaches are able to generate 
superior risk-adjusted returns. 
Finally, we discuss how the 
optimal combination of factors in 
an institutional portfolio depends 
on investor preferences.
Efficient Factor Investing  Strategies  |  3

4  | Efficient Factor Investing Strategies


The rise of factor investing
Is the capitalization-weighted broad market index an efficient portfolio? This is a fundamental 
question which every investor should think carefully about. If the answer is affirmative, 
investing is pretty simple. All an investor needs to do in this case is to simply replicate the 
broad market index, which can be done at minimal costs nowadays. The academic literature, 
however, indicates that this is probably a suboptimal approach. Numerous studies in the 
stream of literature on empirical asset pricing have shown that stocks with certain factor 
characteristics deliver superior risk-adjusted returns. Examples of such factor premiums 
include the value effect, the momentum effect, the low-volatility effect and the quality effect.
However, this does not mean that it is easy to ‘beat the market’ . In fact, since all investors 
together comprise the market, it is not surprising that mutual funds on aggregate have 
been found to underperform the market after fees and expenses. Interestingly, however, the 
literature on mutual fund performance evaluation also documents that certain groups of 
funds do succeed in systematically generating superior results. Moreover, there appears to 
be a close link between these studies and the asset pricing literature, as most of the alpha 
of winner funds can, in fact, be explained by the same factor premiums which have emerged 
from the asset pricing literature; see, e.g. Carhart (1997). In other words, the best mutual 
funds appear to benefit from proven factor premiums.
Practical implications   |  But what are the practical implications of these findings? The answer 
was recently provided by three renowned professors: Andrew Ang (Columbia Business School), 
William Goetzmann (Yale School of Management) and Stephen Schaefer (London Business 
School). These professors were consulted by Norges Bank Investment Management (NBIM), 
one of the largest investment managers in the world, responsible for managing EUR 700 
billion of Norway’s oil wealth, to critically evaluate the added value of its active management. 
In line with Carhart (1997), they found that approximately 70% of all active returns to NBIM 
since its inception in 1998 could be explained by exposures to various systematic factors. The 
analysis also highlighted that these factor exposures were actually a byproduct of bottom-up 
security selection by the managers hired by NBIM. The authors recommended NBIM to begin 
using a more top-down, intentional approach to strategic and dynamic factor exposures, and 
to examine how individual factor premiums could be harvested in the most efficient manner. 
After this research was made public in 2009, strategic allocation to factor premiums was 
dubbed by some as ‘the Norway model’ .‘Stocks with 
certain factor 
characteristics 
deliver 
superior  
risk-adjusted
returns’
Efficient Factor Investing Strategies  |  5


Robeco has contributed to this debate by conducting a study on how investors may apply 
factor investing to their equity portfolio in practice. We found that the value, momentum 
low-volatility premiums have been particularly large and robust over time and over different 
markets. Even using more conservative expected returns for the future, we found that the 
optimal allocation to these premiums should be sizable. Moreover, the allocation to factor 
premiums should be diversified (where a simple equal-weighted approach already seems to 
be quite efficient) and determined strategically (in order to avoid chasing recently winning 
styles).1 In a recent study2 we revisited this recommendation using five years of new data and 
also incorporating the quality factor. We showed that in ‘out-of-sample’ data such a factor 
investing strategy continued to add value. Interestingly, similar factor premiums appear to be 
present in other asset classes, such as bonds3, and commodities.41Blitz, “Strategic allocation to premiums 
in the equity market” , Journal of Index 
Investing , 2012
2Blitz, “Factor Investing Revisited” ,  
The Journal of Index Investing , 2015
3Houweling and Van Zundert, “Factor 
Investing in the Credit Market” , working 
paper, 2015
4Blitz and De Groot, “Strategicallocation 
to commodity factor premiums” , 
Journal of Alternative Investments , 2014  
6  | Efficient Factor Investing Strategies


‘Investors 
should be 
aware of the 
pitfalls of
smart beta’Pitfalls of factor indices
One way to capture factor premiums in practice is by following an index which is either explicitly 
or implicitly designed to benefit from factor premiums. Examples are value-weighted indices, 
equal-weighted indices and risk-weighted indices. Several index providers (such as MSCI and 
FTSE) provide such alternatively weighted indexes, and passive managers have introduced 
index funds and exchange-traded funds which follow such indexes. While factor beta or ‘smart 
beta’ approaches have proven that they are able to benefit from factor premiums, investors 
should be aware of their pitfalls.5  Examples of such pitfalls include uncompensated risks, high 
turnover, going against other factor premiums and, related, inefficiently combining factors. A 
more sophisticated approach may therefore offer significantly better performance.
A more sophisticated approach |  For many years, the Robeco Investment Research team 
has concentrated on analyzing, evaluating, and designing various factor strategies. We 
found it is of crucial importance to understand the source of a factor premium and then 
use this information to implement factor strategies efficiently. Key issues with efficient 
implementation are removing unrewarded risks and limiting unnecessary turnover. Below 
is a synopsis of what we’ve discovered about value, momentum, low-volatility, and quality 
investing over the years.
The value premium   |  The value effect is the tendency for inexpensive stocks, measured for 
example by the price-to-book ratio, to have above-market returns. It is well documented in 
the academic literature, where it has been identified over long time periods and in a variety 
of regions, including the US, Japan, Europe and emerging markets. One stream of literature 
proposes that the value premium is a compensation for risk. Professors Eugene Fama and 
Kenneth French argue that the value premium specifically reflects a reward for relative distress 
risk, although empirical evidence supporting this assertion has been elusive.
We studied the supposed positive relationship between distress risk and the value effect using 
a simple premise: if the value premium is a compensation for distress risk, the return from 
value should rise as bankruptcy risk increases. We tested a number of different measures of 
distress risk, including accounting models, structural models, credit spreads and credit ratings, 
and used a conventional implementation of a value strategy, based on price-to-book. While 
we found that conventional value strategies are typically exposed to distress risk, we found no 
empirical evidence that distress risk explains the value premium.6 
We believe our research finding has significant implications for investors in value strategies, 
as our results show that it is not necessary to take on distress risk in order to profit from the 
value premium. A more sophisticated value strategy may be designed by explicitly avoiding 
financially distressed firms.5For a more extensive discussion of the 
pitfalls of smart beta approaches we 
refer to: Blitz, “How smart is ‘Smart 
Beta’ investing” , Journal of Indexes , 
March/April 2013
6De Groot and Huij, “Are the Fama-
French factors really compensations for 
distress risk?” , SSRN working paper, 2015  
Efficient Factor Investing Strategies  |  7


The momentum premium   |  Momentum is the tendency for stocks that have performed well 
in the recent past to continue to perform well; and for stocks that have performed poorly 
to continue to perform poorly. The momentum effect was first documented in the early 
nineties7, and has been confirmed in numerous subsequent studies. The momentum effect 
has also been found to be responsible for most of the persistence in actively managed fund 
performance.
There are two well-documented issues that plague the implementation of a momentum 
strategy. The first and biggest hurdle to exploiting momentum is the risk associated with 
momentum investing. Although momentum offers high average returns in the long run, 
the short-term performance can be very poor, such as in 2009. The second concern with 
momentum investing is that it involves high turnover and therefore significant trading costs. 
Our research and experience show that these concerns can be effectively addressed by 
avoiding unrewarded risks and by not trading too aggressively.
While there is a broad consensus that the momentum effect exists, there is no consensus 
as to why. Just as with other anomalies in the equity market, risk has been proposed as the 
source of the momentum premium, although, again, this does not convincingly explain the 
premium. Other interpretations attribute the momentum factor to mispricing that arises from 
a gradual diffusion of information in the market. What we found, in contrast to other academic 
studies, was that although momentum appears to involve little exposure to risk factors in the 
long run, these exposures can be huge in the short run. A conventional momentum strategy 
tends to involve large negative or positive betas, depending on recent market returns. This 
characteristic is beneficial when markets are trending. But when, for example, they suddenly 
revert, as occurred in 2009 when many stocks that were hit hard by the credit crisis showed a 
recovery, a simple momentum strategy may exhibit large negative returns.
Our research looked into the risk intrinsic to a momentum strategy.8 We found that half of 
the risk does not contribute to the strategy’s return. We then developed a proprietary risk 
management technique to remove these unrewarded risks. The application of this risk 
management technique for momentum strategies halves the volatility compared with a 
conventional momentum strategy, while maintaining the strategy’s returns, which results in 
a doubling of the Sharpe ratio.
The low-volatility premium   |  The low-volatility anomaly was first documented by Robert 
Haugen and others who tested the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) in the early 1970s. In 
a long-term study of the US market, Haugen demonstrated that contrary to what is expected 
by CAPM, low-risk stocks have high risk-adjusted returns.9 His research, however, was virtually 
ignored for decades.‘This risk 
management
technique for 
momentum 
strategies
halves the 
volatility’
7Jegadeesh and Titman. “Returns to 
buying winners and selling losers: 
implications for stock market efficiency,” 
Journal of Finance , 1993
8Blitz, Huij and Martens, “Residual 
momentum,” Journal of Empirical 
Finance , 2011
9Haugen and Heins, “On the evidence 
supporting the existence of risk 
premiums in the capital market,” 
University of Wisconsin Working Paper, 
December 1972
8  | Efficient Factor Investing Strategies


We started our work on the subject of low volatility in 2005 and found that the volatility effect 
is still strongly present in the US market. We also provided strong out-of-sample evidence for 
the European and Japanese equity markets.10 Moreover, we found that the anomaly seems to 
have grown stronger over time, and that it is strongly present among the largest, most liquid 
stocks in the market.
Generic low-volatility strategies are typically based on a single backward-looking historical 
risk measure, such as volatility or beta. This construction, however, may expose the strategy 
to some pitfalls of low-volatility investing, including miscalculated downside risk and 
underperformance in sharply rising markets. A more sophisticated approach to low-volatility 
investing can overcome these pitfalls by taking a multi-dimensional view at risk and using a 
combination of low-risk variables that include both long- and short-term statistical factors.
Our research in optimizing low-volatility strategies also finds that limiting distress risk by 
augmenting backward-looking risk measures with forward-looking measures helps to better 
estimate and reduce the expected tail risk of a low-volatility strategy.11 We believe that a more 
sophisticated approach to low-volatility investing is necessary, because not all low-volatility 
stocks are equal and some are destined to perform better than others. This is especially true 
when low volatility becomes expensive, as is the case in markets now.12
The quality premium  |  The quality effect is the tendency of high-quality stocks to outperform 
low-quality stocks and the market as a whole. What sets the quality factor apart from the 
other factors discussed in this note is that ‘quality’ is less well defined than these other factors. 
For instance, even though ‘value’ can be defined using different measures, the consensus is 
that a stock is considered cheap if the market price is low relative to a fundamental measure; 
and the low-volatility effect relates to the premium prevalent for low-risk stocks. High-quality 
companies typically are considered to be highly profitable, have high earnings quality and/
or are conservatively managed.13 Other stock characteristics that are linked to the quality 
premium are e.g. safety and growth.14 Hence, quality has a very broad meaning and as a 
result is much vaguer than the other factor definitions. 
A potential issue with this vague factor definition for quality is that the term quality can be 
misused or even abused. For instance, our research shows that safety, measured by e.g. 
financial leverage, earnings stability, low credit risk and sometimes even measured using 
return-based measures like market beta and volatility is actually a very different factor on 
its own, i.e. the low-volatility (or low-risk) factor. And secondly, we find that other quality 
definitions have weak or sometimes even non-existent (stand-alone) predictive power for 
future returns as is the case for growth measures like growth in profitability or earnings growth 
but also an often used measure like return on equity (ROE).15 Our concerns with existing 
generic quality strategies is that these are suboptimal due to the use of poor definitions which 10Blitz and Van Vliet, “The volatility 
effect: lower risk without lower return” , 
Journal of Portfolio Management , Fall 
2007
11Huij, Van Vliet, De Groot and Zhou, 
“How distress risk can improve low-
volatility strategies: lessons learned 
since 2006” , in Low-Volatility Investing, 
1st edition, Rotterdam, Robeco 
collection of articles, 2012
12Van Vliet, “Enhancing a low-volatility 
strategy is particularly helpful when 
generic low volatility is expensive” , 
Robeco, June 2012. Available at www.
robeco.com/lowvolatility
13Novy-Marx, “The Other Side of 
Value: Good Growth and the Gross 
Profitability Premium” J ournal of 
Financial Economics , 2013. Sloan. 
“Do Stock Prices Reflect Information 
in Accruals and Cash Flows about 
Future Earnings?” Accounting Review, 
1996. Fama and French, “Profitability, 
Investment and Average Returns” , 
Journal of Financial Economics , 2006
14Asness, Frazzini and Pedersen, 
“Quality minus Junk” , Working paper, 
2014
15Asev, Hanauer, Huij and Lansdorp, 
“Quality investing – Industry versus 
academic definitions” , Working paper, 
2016
Efficient Factor Investing Strategies  |  9


are sometimes even mixed with other factors to boost their (back-tested) performance. This 
approach does not result in achieving efficient exposure to the quality factor to capture the 
quality premium. 
Our research on the quality factor resulted in a multi-dimensional view on quality that 
incorporates profitability, earnings quality and management policy. Each of these three 
themes has deeply rooted academic underpinnings and is shown to have a strong stand-
alone performance. We believe a sophisticated approach to quality investing will result in a 
positive and robust return premium. 
 
There has been a vast amount of studies attempting to validate or falsify the existence of the 
value, momentum and low-volatility premiums For the ‘newer’ quality factor premium the 
evidence is strong but it has been put to the test less frequently than the other factors. As 
such, we are positive on the quality factor but would start with a lower weight to this factor.
Risk of factor premiums going against each other  |  The examples above illustrate how 
unrewarded risks that are specific to the value, momentum, and low-risk premiums may 
be avoided. Another, more general form of unrewarded risk involved with harvesting factor 
premiums is individual factors having negative exposures to one another. Such a feature 
is highly undesirable because having negative exposures to factors with positive expected 
returns lowers the expected return. For example, if a factor index aims to harvest the 
momentum premium and this index has a negative exposure to the value premium, the 
expected return on the index is not only a function of the momentum premium, but also of 
the value premium. And because the expected return of the value premium is positive, the 
negative exposure of the factor index is expected to hurt its performance. Efficient approaches 
to obtain factor premium exposure should therefore be designed in such a way that premiums 
do not go against each other and thereby hurt performance.‘All three 
index-based 
strategies 
deliver a 
superior risk-
adjusted 
performance’
10  | Efficient Factor Investing Strategies


Enhancing factor strategies
To gauge the economic significance of the insights we discussed in the first part of this note, 
we performed a series of empirical analyses. First, we analyzed the performance of popular 
index-based strategies for obtaining value, momentum, low-volatility and quality factor 
exposure. For the index-based strategies we used the MSCI World Value Weighted index, the 
MSCI World Momentum index, the MSCI World Minimum Volatility index and the MSCI World 
Quality index, respectively. For comparison purposes, the performance characteristics of the 
conventional capitalization-weighted market index are also included.
Intentional and efficient exposure to factor premiums  |  As table 1 below shows, all four 
index-based strategies deliver a superior risk-adjusted performance relative to the market, 
with the return/volatility ratio being in the 0.6-0.8 range, versus 0.5 for the market. For value 
and momentum this improvement mainly comes from a higher return, while for low-volatility 
it mainly comes from a lower risk and for quality it comes from both. These results empirically 
confirm the added value of factor investing. 
Table 1. Performance generic factor strategies
   MSCI MSCI MSCI  MSCI MSCI 
 World Value Momentum Low vol Quality
Return 7.3% 8.5% 10.4% 8.6% 11.0%
Volatility 15.0% 15.2% 15.5% 11.3% 13.8%
Return/volatility 0.48 0.56 0.67 0.76 0.80
Source: MSCI. Average returns are calculated geometrically. Sample period: 1988:06-2015:12. Base currency: USD. 
Largely based on simulations and partly on real-life data.
 
Next, we computed the same performance metrics incorporating the insights described in the 
first part of this paper. The results are displayed in table 2 below. Compared with table 1, we 
observe a significant further improvement in performance, with return/volatility ratios in the 
0.8-1 range. This implies that the added value of the Robeco factor solutions is over double 
that of the index-based solutions. In fact, this still understates the difference in added value, 
because for the Robeco factor solutions the impact of trading costs is conservatively taken into 
account, while the index returns conveniently ignore such costs.
  
Table 2. Performance enhanced factor strategies
   MSCI World Value+ Momentum+  Low vol+ Quality+
Return 7.3% 13.3% 12.2% 12.3% 12.3%
Volatility 15.0% 15.0% 15.0% 11.8% 13.4%
Return/volatility 0.48 0.88 0.81 1.04 0.92
Source: Robeco, MSCI. Average returns are calculated geometrically. Sample period: 1988:06-2015:12. Base currency: 
USD. Based on simulations.
Efficient Factor Investing Strategies  |  11


Across the board, the improvements in the Sharpe ratios come from both an increase in return 
and a decrease in risk. The risk reductions are largely due to avoiding unrewarded risks, as 
described earlier. The risk budget that is released by avoiding the unrewarded risks also enables 
the efficient approaches to seek higher exposures to the factor premiums (i.e., through higher 
concentration and active share) resulting in higher returns. For instance, whereas the MSCI 
Value Weighted index has an active share of only about 25%, the corresponding figure for the 
Robeco Value strategy is around 90%.
The returns are also higher because of differences in exposures to other factors. For example, 
the MSCI World Value Weighted and the MSCI World Minimum Volatility indexes both exhibit 
a negative exposure to the momentum premium, whereas the efficient factor premium 
strategies are designed to avoid negative exposures to other factor premiums. Based on the 
above results, we can conclude that the added value of our research insights is sizable.
Confirmed by live track-records  |  Our live track-records confirm the added value of Robeco 
factor strategies. As table 3 shows, most of our factor funds have not only handsomely 
outperformed the regular capitalization-weighted index, but also their corresponding factor 
indices. We note that these results would be even better on a risk-adjusted basis, in particular 
for our low-volatility (Conservative Equities) strategies, which have lived up to their promise of 
delivering a much lower volatility than the capitalization-weighted index.
Table 3. Live performance Robeco factor strategies versus MSCI factor indices
   Value Momentum Conservative Conservative
 all-country  all-country developed  emerging  
Start month Jan 2014 Sep 2012 Oct 2006 Mar 2011
Versus regular index
Robeco 7.7% 14.6% 9.1% 7.5%
MSCI 9.7% 11.9% 5.2% 0.8%
Excess return -2.0% 2.7% 3.8% 6.8%
Versus factor index
Robeco 7.7% 14.6% 9.1% 7.5%
MSCI 6.6% 13.1% 7.0% 6.3%
Excess return 1.1% 1.5% 2.1% 1.2%
Source: Robeco, MSCI. Returns are annualized and gross of fees. Base currency: EUR. Data through 31 March 2016. 
Strategies are: Robeco Quant Value, Robeco Momentum and Robeco Conservative Equities. Indices are MSCI Value-
Weighted, MSCI Momentum and MSCI Minimum Volatility (net return). The value of your investments may fluctuate. 
Results obtained in the past are no guarantee for the future.‘Factor 
investing is 
beneficial in 
the long run 
in all of the 
cases’
12  | Efficient Factor Investing Strategies


Client preferences determine optimal factor combination
Having identified four factors that have proven their long-term performance potential – value, 
momentum, low-volatility and quality – the next question is which factor(s) an investor should 
select. Using our Robeco enhanced factor strategies we consider optimal solutions for each 
client based on their preferences and their current portfolio. Unfortunately, there is little 
evidence that it is possible to successfully predict which factors are going to do well in the 
near future and which factors are going to lag. This argues for diversifying across the different 
factors instead of tactically trying to identify the best one. It also supports our enhanced factor 
investing approach which limits negative exposure to other proven factors. With these efficient 
strategies we can construct optimal factor exposures which meet our clients’ objectives in a 
way that is just not possible through an allocation to generic factor indices. 
We strongly believe there is no single optimal factor allocation as the optimal factor-investing 
portfolio depends on investor-specific beliefs and preferences. Given the lack of evidence that 
one factor dominates the others over the long term and most investors’ need for balanced 
risk exposure, an equally weighted portfolio represents a good starting point for a multi-
factor portfolio. However, we would also put more weight to factors for which there is more 
academic evidence. A recent study by Huij and Van Gelderen16 shows that it less likely that a 
factor strategy can be successfully implemented in reality if the empirical evidence on which 
this knowledge is based is inconclusive. With this knowledge our factor conviction on value, 
momentum and low-volatility is higher than for quality. The motivation here is that, compared 
with the other factors, quality is a younger and less widely accepted factor. With this in mind 
we would suggest a default factor mix consisting of a 30% allocation each to Robeco Value, 
Momentum and Conservative Equities and a 10% allocation to Robeco Quality. From there, 
and depending on the preferences and goals of our investors, we can assign more or less 
weight to certain Robeco factor strategies. We will discuss several other client cases along the 
main dimensions of risk and return. 
First, the low-volatility factor is less attractive for clients who care more about total return 
than about reducing risk, and for clients who dislike the sensitivity of low-volatility strategies 
to broad market performance and the significant amount of tracking error involved with 
that. For those clients we suggest a factor mix consisting of 40% Robeco Value, 40% Robeco 
Momentum, and 20% Robeco Quality. 
Second, if a pension fund’s main objective is funding-ratio stability he would probably be 
best off with an implementation offering downside protection. This could also be a client of 
which the current portfolio is tilted to high-risk stocks. In these cases it is optimal to allocate 
to Conservative Equities because of its ability to offer downside protection and improve the 
Sharpe ratio. 16Huij and Van Gelderen, “Academic 
Knowledge Dissemination in the 
Mutual Fund Industry: Can Mutual 
Funds Successfully Adopt Factor 
Investing Strategies?” , The Journal of 
Portfolio Management , 2014
Efficient Factor Investing Strategies  |  13


David Blitz, PhD
Head Selection 
ResearchJoop Huij, PhD
Head Factor 
Investing ResearchSimon Lansdorp, PhD  
Factor Investing
ResearcherPim van Vliet, PhD
Portfolio Manager 
Conservative Equities
There are also other examples. Some clients allocate to only one or two of the Robeco factor 
strategies, when the client selects a specific manager for a specific factor. Also other clients 
have a clear preference for income for which Value and/or Conservative are good solutions as 
they offer high dividend. Other clients prefer low turnover, for which Momentum is perhaps 
less well suited and could be excluded from the mix.
In all cases, it is also important to take into account each investor’s existing portfolio and  
factor exposures when building an optimal solution.  For instance, an investor who already 
has a significant value tilt in the core portfolio might want to give less weight to that factor in 
the factor portfolio.
Final words  |  Institutional investors are increasingly allocating strategically to factor 
premiums. We recommend these investors to avoid risks that are not rewarded and that are 
not necessary for capturing factor premiums. We also recommend avoiding going against 
other factor premiums. We observe that more and more clients tailor their allocation to 
factors based on their preferences and current portfolio. 
14  | Efficient Factor Investing Strategies


Appendix
Robeco’s Quantitive Equity product suite  |  All our Quantitative Equity products are designed 
to benefit from a number of factor premiums. The key difference between the various Robeco 
Quantitative Equity capabilities is how they use factor premiums, and with which objective. 
We distinguish between three key capabilities.
Core Quant  |  A balanced combination of factors aimed at consistently outperforming a 
benchmark with controlled tracking error. Our Core Quant strategies use a proprietary, 
balanced combination of value and momentum factors and a proprietary portfolio construction 
algorithm, designed to consistently outperform a market benchmark with controlled tracking 
error. As such, these strategies are designed to maximize the information ratio.
Target clients: clients who allocate to traditional asset classes and look for an asset manager 
capable of generating consistent alpha, leaving it up to the asset manager to determine the 
most optimal way to do that.
Conservative Equities  |  An active low-volatility approach aiming for low risk and high return. 
Our Conservative Equities strategies use a proprietary stock selection model and portfolio 
construction algorithm aimed at achieving a lower absolute risk than the market index with 
similar or higher return, resulting in a high Sharpe ratio. The model is centered around the 
low-volatility premium, but also uses value and momentum factors to identify the most 
attractive low-volatility stocks.
Target clients: clients who are interested in capturing the equity premium with less risk and/or 
clients interested in a high dividend yield.
Factor Investing  |  Offering clients flexibility to select their preferred combination of factors. 
Asset owners increasingly decide to allocate strategically to factor premiums next to traditional 
asset class risk premiums, essentially treating both as equals. These investors wish to select 
factors and choose factor weights themselves. Robeco has extensive expertise with providing 
insight into factor exposures of an existing portfolio, and with helping asset owners in setting 
up their factor investing strategy. In order to service these clients we introduced strategies 
which specifically aim to harvest the value, momentum, low-volatility and quality premiums. 
We also offer bespoke factor investing solutions that are designed in close cooperation with 
the client. 
Target clients: clients who consider factor premiums next to traditional asset classes in their 
strategic asset allocation process and who wish to select factors and choose factor weights 
themselves.
Efficient Factor Investing Strategies  |  15


Contact
Robeco (Headquarters)
P .O. Box 973
3000 AZ Rotterdam
The Netherlands
E   contact@robeco.com
Efficient Factor Investing Strategies  |  17


Important Information 
Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V., hereafter Robeco, has a license as manager of UCITS and AIFs from the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets in Amsterdam. 
This statement is intended for professional investors. Therefore, the information set forth herein is not addressed and must not be made available, in whole or in part, to other 
parties, such as retail clients. Robeco disclaims all liability arising from users other than those specified herein. Without further explanation this presentation cannot be considered 
complete. It is intended to provide the professional investor with general information on Robeco’s specific capabilities, but does not constitute a recommendation or an advice to buy 
or sell certain securities or investment products. All rights relating to the information in this presentation are and will remain the property of Robeco. No part of this presentation may 
be reproduced, saved in an automated data file or published in any form or by any means, either electronically, mechanically, by photocopy, recording or in any other way, without 
Robeco’s prior written permission. The information contained in this publication is not intended for users from other countries, such as US citizens and residents, where the offering 
of foreign financial services is not permitted, or where Robeco’s services are not available. The prospectus and the Key Investor Information Document for the Robeco Funds can all be 
obtained free of charge at www.robeco.com. Investment involves risks. Before investing, please note the initial capital is not guaranteed. The value of the investments may fluctuate. 
Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Historical returns are provided for illustrative purposes only. The price of units may go down as well as up and the past performance 
is not indicative of future performance. If the currency in which the past performance is displayed differs from the currency of the country in which you reside, then you should be aware 
that due to exchange rate fluctuations the performance shown may increase or decrease if converted into your local currency. 
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in France
Robeco is having the freedom to provide services in France. Robeco France has been approved under registry number 10683 by the French prudential control and resolution authority 
(formerly ACP , now the ACPR) as an investment firm since 28 September 2012. Robeco France is only authorized to offer investment advice service to professional investors. 
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Germany
This information is solely intended for professional investors or eligible counterparties in the meaning of the German Securities Trading Act.
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Italy
This document is considered for use solely by qualified investors and private professional clients (as defined in Article 26 (1) (d) of Consob Regulation No. 16190). If made available 
to Distributors and individuals authorized by Distributors to conduct promotion and marketing activity, it may only be used for the purpose for which it was conceived. Therefore, the 
information set forth herein is not addressed and must not be made available, in whole or in part, to other parties, such as retail clients. Robeco disclaims all liability arising from uses 
other than those specified herein. 
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Spain
The Spanish branch Robeco Institutional Asset Management BV, Sucursal en España, having its registered office at Paseo de la Castellana 42, 28046 Madrid, is registered with the 
Spanish Authority for the Financial Markets (CNMV) in Spain under registry number 24. 
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Switzerland
This document is exclusively distributed in Switzerland to qualified investors as such terms are defined under the Swiss Collective Investment Schemes Act (CISA). RobecoSAM AG has 
been authorized by the FINMA as Swiss representative of the Fund(s), and UBS Switzerland AG, Bahnhofstrasse 45, 8001 Zurich, postal address: Badenerstrasse 574, P .O. Box, CH-8098 
Zurich, as Swiss paying agent. The prospectus, the key investor information documents (KIIDs), the articles of association, the annual and semi-annual reports of the Fund(s), as well 
as the list of the purchases and sales which the Fund(s) has undertaken during the financial year, may be obtained, on simple request and free of charge, at the head office of the Swiss 
representative RobecoSAM AG, Josefstrasse 218, CH-8005 Zurich. 
If the currency in which the past performance is displayed differs from the currency of the country in which you reside, then you should be aware that due to exchange rate fluctuations 
the performance shown may increase or decrease if converted into your local currency. The value of the investments may fluctuate. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. 
The performance data do not take account of the commissions and costs incurred on the issue and redemption of units. 
The prices used for the performance figures of the Luxembourg-based funds are the end-of-month transaction prices net of fees up to 4 August2010. From 4 August 2010, the 
transaction prices net of fees will be those of the first business day of the month. Return figures versus the benchmark show the investment management result before management 
and/or performance fees; the fund returns are with dividends reinvested and based on net asset values with prices and exchange rates of the valuation moment of the benchmark. 
Please refer to the prospectus of the funds for further details. The prospectus is available at the company’s offices or via the www.robeco.ch website. Performance is quoted net of 
investment management fees. The ongoing charges mentioned in this publication is the one stated in the fund’s latest annual report at closing date of the last calendar year.
The material and information in this document are provided “as is” and without warranties of any kind, either expressed or implied. Robeco and its related, affiliated and subsidiary 
companies disclaim all warranties, expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.
All information contained in this document is distributed with the understanding that the authors, publishers and distributors are not rendering legal, accounting or other professional 
advice or opinions on specific facts or matters and accordingly assume no liability whatsoever in connection with its use. In no event shall Robeco and its related, affiliated and 
subsidiary companies be liable for any direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages arising out of the use of any opinion or information expressly or implicitly 
contained in this document
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in the United Kingdom
Robeco is subject to limited regulation in the UK by the Financial Conduct Authority. Details about the extent of our regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority are available from us 
on request.
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Hong Kong 
Investment returns not denominated in HKD/USD are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. Investors should refer to the fund’s Hong Kong prospectus before making any investment 
decision. Investors should ensure that they fully understand the risk associated with the fund. Investors should also consider their own investment objective and risk tolerance level. Any 
opinions, estimates or forecasts may be changed at any time without prior warning. If in doubt, please seek independent advice. The content of this document is based upon sources 
of information believed to be reliable. This fund may use derivatives as part of its investment strategy and such investments are inherently volatile and this fund could potentially be 
exposed to additional risk and cost should the market move against it. Investors should note that the investment strategy and risks inherent to the fund are not typically encountered in 
traditional equity long only funds. In extreme market conditions, the fund may be faced with theoretically unlimited losses. This document has not been reviewed by the Securities and 
Futures Commission. This document has been distributed by Robeco Hong Kong Limited (‘Robeco’). Robeco is regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong.
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Singapore
This document is not intended as a recommendation or for the purpose of soliciting any action in relation to Robeco Capital Growth Funds or other Robeco Funds (the “Fund”) and 
should not be construed as an offer to sell shares of the Fund (the “Shares”) or solicitation by anyone in any jurisdiction in which such an offer or solicitation is not authorised or to any 
person to whom it is unlawful to make such an offer and solicitation. 
Nothing in this document constitutes accounting, legal, regulatory, tax or other advice. Any decision to subscribe for interests in the Fund must be made solely on the basis of 
information contained in the prospectus (the “Prospectus”), which information may be different from the information contained in this document, and with independent analyses of 
your investment and financial situation and objectives. The information contained in this document is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Prospectus, and this document should, 
at all times, be read in conjunction with the Prospectus. Detailed information on the Fund and associated risks is contained in the Prospectus. Any decision to participate in the Fund 
should be made only after reviewing the sections regarding investment considerations, conflicts of interest, risk factors and the relevant Singapore selling restrictions (as described in 
the section entitled “Important Information for Singapore Investors”) contained in the Prospectus. You should consult your professional adviser if you are in doubt about the stringent 
restrictions applicable to the use of this document, regulatory status of the Fund, applicable regulatory protection, associated risks and suitability of the Fund to your objectives.
This document is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country or other jurisdiction 
where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation or which would subject the Fund and its investment manager to any registration or 
licensing requirement within such jurisdiction. Investors should note that only the sub-funds listed in the appendix to the section entitled “Important Information for Singapore 
Investors” of the Prospectus (the “Sub-Funds”) are available to Singapore investors. The Sub-Funds are notified as restricted foreign schemes under the Securities and Futures Act, 

Chapter 289 of Singapore (“SFA”) and are invoking the exemptions from compliance with prospectus registration requirements pursuant to the exemptions under Section 304 and 
Section 305 of the SFA. The Sub-Funds are not authorised or recognised by the Monetary Authority of Singapore and Shares in the Sub-Funds are not allowed to be offered to the retail 
public in Singapore. The Prospectus of the Fund is not a prospectus as defined in the SFA. Accordingly, statutory liability under the SFA in relation to the content of prospectuses would 
not apply. The Sub-Funds may only be promoted exclusively to persons who are sufficiently experienced and sophisticated to understand the risks involved in investing in such schemes, 
and who satisfy certain other criteria provided under Section 304, Section 305 or any other applicable provision of the SFA and the subsidiary legislation enacted thereunder. You 
should consider carefully whether the investment is suitable for you. 
This document may contain projections or other forward looking statements regarding future events or future financial performance of countries, markets or companies and such 
projection or forecast is not indicative of the future or likely performance of the Fund. Neither the Fund, its investment manager nor any of their associates, nor any director, officer 
or employee accepts any liability whatsoever for any loss arising directly or indirectly from the use of this document. The information contained in this document, including any data, 
projections and underlying assumptions are based upon certain assumptions, management forecasts and analysis of information available as at the date of this document and reflects 
prevailing conditions and our views as of the date of the document, all of which are accordingly subject to change at any time without notice and the Fund and its investment manager 
are under no obligation to notify you of any of these changes. Prospective investors should not view the past performance of the Fund or its investment manager as indicative of future 
results.
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Shanghai
This material may not be copied or used with the public. This material is prepared by Robeco Investment Management Advisory (Shanghai) Limited Company (Robeco Shanghai for 
short) and is only provided to the specific objects under the premise of confidentiality. This material must not be wholly or partially reproduced, distributed, circulated, disseminated, 
published or disclosed, in any form and for any purpose, to any third party without prior approval from Robeco Shanghai. The information and/or analysis contained in this material 
have been compiled or arrived at from sources believed to be reliable but Robeco Shanghai does not make any representation as to their accuracy, correctness, usefulness or 
completeness and does not accept liability for any loss arising from the use hereof or the information and/or analysis contained herein. Neither Robeco Shanghai or its affiliates, nor 
any of their directors, officers or employees shall assume any liability or responsibility for any direct or indirect loss or damage or any other consequence of any person acting or not 
acting in reliance on the information contained herein. The information in this material may contain projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future events, targets, 
management discipline or other expectations which involve assumptions, risks, and uncertainties and is only as current as of the date indicated. Based on this, there is no assurance 
that such events will occur, and may be significantly different than that shown here, and we cannot guarantee that these statistics and the assumptions derived from the statistics will 
reflect the market conditions that may be encountered or future performances of Robeco Shanghai. The information in this material is based on current market conditions, which will 
fluctuate and may be superseded by subsequent market events or for other reasons. The information contained herein may not reflect the latest information on account of the changes 
and Robeco Shanghai is not responsible for the updating of the material or the correction of inaccurate or missing information contained in the material. Robeco Shanghai has not yet 
been registered as the private fund manager with the Asset Management Association of China. This material was prepared solely for informational purposes and does not constitute 
a recommendation, professional advice, an offer, solicitation or an invitation by or on behalf of Robeco Shanghai to any person to buy or sell any product. This material should not be 
viewed as a recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to adopt any investment strategies. Nothing in this material constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax 
advice, or a representation that any investment or strategy is suitable or appropriate to your individual circumstances, or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation to you. 
Robeco Shanghai is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise established in accordance with the PRC laws, which enjoys independent civil rights and civil obligations. The statements of the 
shareholders or affiliates in the material shall not be deemed to a promise or guarantee of the shareholders or affiliates of Robeco Shanghai, or be deemed to any obligations or 
liabilities imposed to the shareholders or affiliates of Robeco Shanghai.
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Australia
This document is distributed in Australia by Robeco Hong Kong Limited (ARBN 156 512 659) (‘Robeco’) which is exempt from the requirement to hold an Australian financial services 
licence under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) pursuant to ASIC Class Order 03/1103. Robeco is regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission under the laws of Hong Kong and 
those laws may differ from Australian laws. This document is distributed only to “wholesale clients” as that term is defined under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). This document is not 
for distribution or dissemination, directly or indirectly, to any other class of persons. It is being supplied to you solely for your information and may not be reproduced, forwarded to any 
other person or published, in whole or in part, for any purpose. In New Zealand, this document is only available to wholesale investors within the meaning of clause 3(2) of Schedule 1 
of the Financial Markets Conduct Act 2013 (‘FMCA’). This document is not for public distribution in Australia and New Zealand.
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC), United Arab Emirates
Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. (Dubai Office), Office 209, Level 2, Gate Village Building 7 , Dubai International Financial Centre, Dubai, PO Box 482060, UAE. Robeco 
Institutional Asset Management B.V. (Dubai office) is regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (“DFSA”) and only deals with Professional Clients and does not deal with Retail 
Clients as defined by the DFSA.
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Brazil
The fund may not be offered or sold to the public in Brazil. Accordingly, the fund has not been nor will be registered with the Brazilian Securities Commission - CVM nor have they 
been submitted to the foregoing agency for approval. Documents relating to the fund, as well as the information contained therein, may not be supplied to the public in Brazil, as the 
offering of the fund is not a public offering of securities in Brazil, nor used in connection with any offer for subscription or sale of securities to the public in Brazil.
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Colombia
This document does not constitute a public offer in the Republic of Colombia. The offer of the fund is addressed to less than one hundred specifically identified investors. The fund may 
not be promoted or marketed in Colombia or to Colombian residents, unless such promotion and marketing is made in compliance with Decree 2555 of 2010 and other applicable 
rules and regulations related to the promotion of foreign funds in Colombia. The distribution of this document and the offering of [Shares] may be restricted in certain jurisdictions. 
The information contained in this document is for general guidance only, and it is the responsibility of any person or persons in possession of this document and wishing to make 
application for the fund to inform themselves of, and to observe, all applicable laws and regulations of any relevant jurisdiction. Prospective applicants for the fund should inform 
themselves of any applicable legal requirements, exchange control regulations and applicable taxes in the countries of their respective citizenship, residence or domicile.
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Panama
The distribution of this fund and the offering of Shares may be restricted in certain jurisdictions. The above information is for general guidance only, and it is the responsibility of any 
person or persons in possession of the prospectus of the fund and wishing to make application for Shares to inform themselves of, and to observe, all applicable laws and regulations 
of any relevant jurisdiction. Prospective applicants for Shares should inform themselves as to legal requirements also applying and any applicable exchange control regulations and 
applicable taxes in the countries of their respective citizenship, residence or domicile. This document does not constitute an offer or solicitation to any person in any jurisdiction in 
which such offer or solicitation is not authorized or to any person to whom it would be unlawful to make such offer or solicitation.
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Peru
The fund has not been registered before the Superintendencia del Mercado de Valores (SMV) and are being placed by means of a private offer. SMV has not reviewed the information 
provided to the investor. This document is only for the exclusive use of institutional investors in Peru and is not for public distribution.
Additional Information for investors with residence or seat in Uruguay
The sale of the fund qualifies as a private placement pursuant to section 2 of Uruguayan law 18,627 . The fund must not be offered or sold to the public in Uruguay, except in 
circumstances which do not constitute a public offering or distribution under Uruguayan laws and regulations. The fund is not and will not be registered with the Financial Services 
Superintendency of the Central Bank of Uruguay. The fund corresponds to investment funds that are not investment funds regulated by Uruguayan law 16,774 dated September 27 , 
1996, as amended.
Additional Information for US offshore investors
The Robeco Capital Growth Funds have not been registered under the United States Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, nor the United States Securities Act of 1933, as 
amended. None of the shares may be offered or sold, directly or indirectly in the United States or to any US Person. A US Person is defined as (a) any individual who is a citizen or 
resident of the United States for federal income tax purposes; (b) a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized under the laws of or existing in the United States; (c) 
an estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States federal income tax regardless of whether such income is effectively connected with a United States trade or business.

